Added initial cloud files (#7338)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb3/cloud/admin/users/_index.md

---
title: Manage users
seotitle: Manage users and permissions in {{< product-name >}}
description: >
  Manage users and access to resources in your {{< product-name >}} instance.

>   Use the console for self-service user management or contact support for

Reviewer: Standardize on "Admin UI".

```suggestion
  Use the Admin UI for self-service user management or contact support for
```

  advanced operations.
menu:
  influxdb3_cloud:
    parent: Administer InfluxDB
weight: 101
influxdb3/cloud/tags: [user groups]
related:
  - /influxdb3/cloud/admin/tokens/
---

Manage users and access to resources in your {{% product-name %}} instance.

By assigning users to different groups based on the level of access they need,
you can minimize unnecessary access and reduce the risk of inadvertent
actions.
User groups associate access privileges with user attributes--an important part of the
Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC) security model which grants access based on
user attributes, resource types, and environment context.

- [Available user groups](#available-user-groups)
- [User management methods](#user-management-methods)

## Available user groups

> In {{% product-name %}}, users have "management" responsibilities, such as creating and

Reviewer: Quotes aren't necessary here, maybe italics if you want to set it off?

```suggestion
In {{% product-name %}}, users have management responsibilities, such as creating and
```

deleting [databases](/influxdb3/cloud/admin/databases/) and provisioning
[database tokens](/influxdb3/cloud/admin/tokens/) for reading and writing data.

A user can belong to the following groups, each with predefined privileges:

- **Admin**: Read and write permissions on all resources.
- **Member**: Read permission on certain resources and create permission for

>   database tokens; members can't delete or create databases or management tokens.

Reviewer: Align with the token types defined on the tokens page — admin tokens and database tokens. There's no "management token" type.

```suggestion
  database tokens; members can't delete or create databases or admin tokens.
```

- **Auditor**: Read permission on all resources; auditors can't modify resources.

> [!Note]

> > #### Existing users are Admin by default

Reviewer: "Existing users" implies a pre-groups state to migrate from. We could add a more specific note for Cloud Dedicated customers?

```suggestion
> #### Users are Admin by default
```

>
> With the release of user groups for {{% product-name %}}, all existing users
> in your account are initially assigned to the Admin group, retaining full

> > access to resources in your instance.

Reviewer: Drop "With the release of user groups for {{% product-name %}}," and "existing" — user groups ship in the initial release, so there's no migration event and no pre-groups users. State the default directly for all users.

```suggestion
> All users in your account are initially assigned to the Admin group,
> retaining full access to resources in your instance.
```

## User management methods

> Use the console for user management tasks (available to Admin users only):

Reviewer: Lead with the actor, fold the access restriction into the sentence, and standardize on "Admin UI".

```suggestion
Admin users can use the Admin UI to perform the following user management tasks:
```

> Use the console for user management tasks (available to Admin users only):

Reviewer: "console" means the Admin UI?
